---
name: Version 2.2.0
endpoint: /release-2-2-0
description: Release announcement for Dash Mantine Components v2.2.0
category: Releases
order: 99
---

.. toc::

Released August 18, 2025


### Source edit mode in RichTextEditor

[RichTextEditor](/components/richtexteditor) now supports source code edit mode.

.. exec::docs.richtexteditor.sourcecode


 
### Bar value label props

[Bar Chart](/components/barchart) now supports passing props down to [recharts LabelList](https://recharts.org/en-US/api/LabelList) component with `valueLabelProps` prop. 

Thanks to first time contributor @CGaul for adding this feature! 

.. exec::docs.barchart.bar_value_label_props



### Styles API attributes
You now can pass attributes to inner elements of all components that support [Styles API](/styles-api) with `attributes`
prop. For example, it can be used to add data attributes for testing purposes:

.. exec::docs.styles-api.attributes


### Container grid strategy

 [Container](/components/container) now supports `strategy="grid"` prop which enables more features.

Differences from the default `strategy="block"`:

- Uses `display: grid` instead of `display: block`
- Does not include default inline padding
- Does not set `max-width` on the root element (uses grid template columns instead)

Features supported by `strategy="grid"`:

- Everything that is supported by `strategy="block"`
- Children with `data-breakout` attribute take the entire width of the container's parent element
- Children with `data-container` inside `data-breakout` have the same width as the main grid column

Example of using breakout feature:

.. exec::docs.container.strategy
    :code: false


.. sourcetabs::docs/container/strategy.py
    :defaultExpanded: false
    :withExpandedButton: true


### Tooltip Target

New [Tooltip](/components/tooltip) `target` prop is an alternative to `children`. It accepts a string (selector), an HTML
element or a `ref` object with HTML element. Use `target` prop when you do not render tooltip target as JSX element—for
example, in a clientside callback.

Example of using target prop with a string selector:

.. exec::docs.tooltip.target


### autoSelectOnBlur prop

[Select](/components/select) and [Autocomplete](/components/autocomplete) components now support `autoSelectOnBlur` prop.
Use it to automatically select the highlighted option when the input loses focus. To see this feature in action: select
an option with up/down arrows, then click outside the input:


.. exec::docs.select.autoselectonblur

### Accordion chevronIconSize prop
- The [Accordion](/components/accordion) default `chevronSize` prop value was changed to `auto` to allow using dynamic icon sizes.
- The `Accordion` now supports `chevronIconSize` prop to configure size of the default chevron icon.

.. exec::docs.accordion.interactive
    :code: false



### New in the Docs

#### New Autocomplete component section


Use [Autocomplete](/components/autocomplete) component in the following cases:

- You want to allow user to enter any value
- You want to display suggestions to the user based on the input value
- You want to preserve user input on blur if option was not selected from the dropdown
- `value` and `label` of the option are the same.

.. exec::docs.autocomplete.simple

#### Layout Overview

The new [Layout Overview](/layout-overview) section helps you choose the right component for your use case:

* `Grid` – Use when columns have different sizes (for example, first column is 1/3 width, second is 2/3).
* `SimpleGrid` – Use for equal-width columns.
* `Group` – Arrange items horizontally.
* `Stack` – Arrange items vertically.
* `Flex` – Create both horizontal and vertical flexbox layouts. More flexible than `Group` or `Stack`, but requires more configuration.

This section also explains the differences between `Container`, `Paper`, and `Box`, and provides an overview of
`AppShell` for adding headers, footers, navbars, and asides to your app.


#### Theming and Style section updates

The Theming and Styles are now two sections to make the information easier to find.  Plus there is a new
[Mantine Overview](/mantine-overview) section to help understand the basic features of the Mantine API.


### Quick Start

Just a reminder:

* With Dash ≥ 3.0.0, there’s no need to manually set the React version.
* With DMC ≥ 1.2.0, you no longer need to include optional stylesheets such as `dmc.styles.ALL`.

Here’s a minimal app to get started:

.. exec::docs.getting-started.hello_world
   :code: false

```python
import dash_mantine_components as dmc
from dash import Dash

app = Dash()

app.layout = dmc.MantineProvider(
    dmc.Alert(
        "Welcome to Dash Mantine Components",
        title="Hello!",
        color="violet",
    )
)

app.run(debug=True)
```

