---
name: Version 2.6.0
endpoint: /release-2-6-0
description: Release announcement for Dash Mantine Components v2.6.0
category: Releases
order: 95
---

.. toc::

Feb 14, 2026  

Based on Mantine 8.3.14

See [Changelog](https://github.com/snehilvj/dash-mantine-components/releases/tag/2.6.0)  



### New ColorSchemeToggle Component

`ColorSchemeToggle` automatically switches between light and dark themes and persists the user’s selection in localStorage.

Copy this app to run it locally. For a live demo, click the `ColorSchemeToggle` in the header of these docs.

> The toggle handles theme switching internally and does not require a Dash callback.

For more information, see the  [ColorSchemeToggle](/components/colorschemetoggle) documentation.

```python
import dash_mantine_components as dmc
from dash import Dash
from dash_iconify import DashIconify

app = Dash()

component = dmc.ColorSchemeToggle(
    lightIcon=DashIconify(icon="radix-icons:sun", width=20),
    darkIcon=DashIconify(icon="radix-icons:moon", width=20),
    color="yellow",
    size="lg",
    m="xl",
)

app.layout = dmc.MantineProvider(component)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run(debug=True)

```
### Prevent flash of incorrect theme on load

This release fixes the light/dark “flash” that could occur when the app is loading initially or on refresh.

`ColorSchemeToggle` now persists the selected color scheme in `localStorage` (`mantine-color-scheme-value`).
The new `pre_render_color_scheme()` helper reads that value and applies the correct Mantine theme before Dash mounts, so the app loads with the proper styles immediately.

```python
import dash_mantine_components as dmc

dmc.pre_render_color_scheme()
```

Requires `dash>=3.0` and `ColorSchemeToggle`


### Other notable updates

- Mantine patch update to 8.3.14. See the [Mantine Releases](https://github.com/mantinedev/mantine/releases) for details.

- Fixed prop types in `Grid` and `SimpleGrid`
- Fixed incorrect clamping in `NumberInput` when `min` or `max` was set to `None`
- New in the docs:  Updated Dash Ag Grid examples for theming in versions >=33

### Thanks

Special thanks to:
  
* [@BSd3v](https://github.com/BSd3v) for the `pre_render_color_scheme()` helper function to Fix The Flash!
* [@alexcjohnson](https://github.com/alexcjohnson) for your helpful feedback during code reviews.

